content/contributors/index.md, before:

+++
date = "2016-10-25T00:00:00Z"
title = "Contributors"
type = "feature"
+++

EnterpriseReady was created for the people who build SaaS products, that's why it was important to get contributors from the teams who are building the leading SaaS products. We've all experienced the bumpy road to finding enterprise adoption, a lot of the bumps were making our applications more Enterprise Ready. Enterprise Ready is the culmination of all of our efforts to help more SaaS vendors find success in the Enterprise.  

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/replicated.png" width="200px"/></a>
Replicated is a platform that enables SaaS providers to ship an installable version of their application on premise, this means into their customer's private data center or private cloud. Alongside providing the platform to deliver the application Replicated also provides Enterprise features, i.e. Single Sign On and Audit Logging.

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/tenable.png" width="200px"/></a>
Tenable Network Security transforms security technology for the business needs of tomorrow through comprehensive solutions that provide continuous visibility and critical context, enabling decisive actions to protect your organization. Tenable eliminates blind spots, prioritizes threats, and reduces exposure and loss.

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/bitium.png" width="200px"/></a>
Founded in 2012, Bitium aims to give growing companies the ability to manage access to all of their web-based applications — including Google Apps and Office 365, as well as social networks and CRM, collaboration and marketing tools — in one place, without hindering employee adoption of these applications.

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/segment.png" width="200px"/></a>
Founded in 2012, Bitium aims to give growing companies the ability to manage access to all of their web-based applications — including Google Apps and Office 365, as well as social networks and CRM, collaboration and marketing tools — in one place, without hindering employee adoption of these applications.

----

Commit message:

Lambtron integrations segment (#101)
* edited integrations feature

* added segment bio

* added segment integrations example and images

content/contributors/index.md, after:

+++
date = "2016-10-25T00:00:00Z"
title = "Contributors"
type = "feature"
+++

EnterpriseReady was created for the people who build SaaS products, that's why it was important to get contributors from the teams who are building the leading SaaS products. We've all experienced the bumpy road to finding enterprise adoption, a lot of the bumps were making our applications more Enterprise Ready. Enterprise Ready is the culmination of all of our efforts to help more SaaS vendors find success in the Enterprise.  

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/replicated.png" width="200px"/></a>
Replicated is a platform that enables SaaS providers to ship an installable version of their application on premise, this means into their customer's private data center or private cloud. Alongside providing the platform to deliver the application Replicated also provides Enterprise features, i.e. Single Sign On and Audit Logging.

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/tenable.png" width="200px"/></a>
Tenable Network Security transforms security technology for the business needs of tomorrow through comprehensive solutions that provide continuous visibility and critical context, enabling decisive actions to protect your organization. Tenable eliminates blind spots, prioritizes threats, and reduces exposure and loss.

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/bitium.png" width="200px"/></a>
Founded in 2012, Bitium aims to give growing companies the ability to manage access to all of their web-based applications — including Google Apps and Office 365, as well as social networks and CRM, collaboration and marketing tools — in one place, without hindering employee adoption of these applications.

----

<a href="#"><img src="/contributors/images/segment.png" width="200px"/></a>
Segment is the customer data infrastructure that collects and routes data from your website, apps, and third-party cloud apps, to over 200 different marketing and analytics tools, as well as data warehousing services.
----
